Welcome to the CREATE TABLE Statement. At the end of this video, you will be
able to explain how the entity name and attributes are used to create
a relational database table. Now let's look at the most
common DDL statement: Create. The syntax of the CREATE table is shown here:
You start with “CREATE TABLE” followed by the name of the table you want to create.
Then enclose rest of the statement inside a pair of parenthesis or round brackets.
Each row inside the parenthesis specifies the name of a column followed by its datatype
and possibly some additional optional values that we will see later.
Each attribute or column definition is separated by a comma.
For example, if we want to create a table for provinces in Canada you would specify:
CREATE TABLE provinces (id char(2) Primary key not null comma name varchar(24) close parenthesis.
In this example, the data types used are: CHAR which is a character string
of a fixed length, in this case 2. And VARCHAR, which is a character
string of a variable length. In this case, this variable character
field can be up to 24 characters long. Issuing this statement would create a
table in the database with 2 columns. The first column id for storing the abbreviated 2
letter province short codes such as AB , BC, etc. And the second column called name for
storing the full name of the province, such as ALBERTA, BRITISH COLUMBIA, etc.
Now, let’s look at a more elaborate example based on the Library database.
This database includes several entities such as AUTHOR, BOOK, BORROWER, etc.
Let’s start by creating the table for the AUTHOR entity.
The name of the table will be AUTHOR, and its attributes
such as AUTHOR_ID, FIRSTNAME, LASTNAME, etc. will be the columns of the table.
In this table, we will also assign the Author_ID attribute as the Primary Key, so that
no duplicate values can exist. Recall, the Primary Key of a relational table uniquely identifies each
tuple (or row) in a table. To create the Author table,
issue the following command: CREATE TABLE author ( author_id CHAR(2) PRIMARY
KEY NOT NULL, lastname VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL, firstname VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
email VARCHAR(40), city VARCHAR(15), country CHAR(2) ) Note that the Author_ID is the Primary
Key. This constraint prevents duplicate values in the table.
Also note that Last Name and First Name have the constraint NOT NULL.
This ensures that these fields cannot contain a NULL value, since an author must have a name.
Now you know that: CREATE is a DDL statement for creating
Entities or tables in a database. The CREATE TABLE statement includes definition
of attributes of columns in the table,
including Names of columns; Datatypes of columns; and other Optional values if required
such as the Primary Key constraint. Thanks for watching this video.