Hello and welcome to sorting SELECT statement result sets. In this video we will learn
about some advanced techniques in retrieving data from a relational database table and
sorting how the result set displays. At the end of this lesson, you will be able to describe
how to sort the result set by either ascending or descending order and explain how to indicate
which column to use for the sorting order.
The main purpose of a database management
system is not just to store the data, but also facilitate retrieval of the data.
In its simplest form, a SELECT statement is: select * from tablename. Based on our simplified
library database model, and the table Book, select * from book gives a result set of
four rows. All the data rows for all columns in the table Book are displayed.
We can choose to list the book titles only, as shown in this example, select title from book. However,
the order does not seem to be in any order. Displaying the result set in alphabetical
order would make the result set more convenient. To do this, we use the ORDER BY clause.
To select the result set in alphabetical order,
we add the ORDER BY clause to the SELECT statement.
The ORDER BY clause is used in a query to sort the result set by a specified
column. In this example, we have used ORDER BY on the column Title to sort the result set.
By default, the result set is sorted in ascending order. In this example, the result
set is sorted in alphabetical order by book title.
To sort in descending order, we use the keyword DESC.
The result-set is now sorted according to the specified column ,
which is Title, and is sorted in descending order. Notice the order of the first three rows.
The first three words of the title are the same. So, the sorting starts at the
point where the characters differ. Another way of specifying the sort column is to indicate
the column sequence number. In this example, select title, pages from book ORDER BY 2
indicates the column sequence number in the query for the sorting order.
Instead of specifying the column name Pages, the number 2 is used. In the SELECT statement, the second
column specified in the column list is "Pages", so the sort order is based on the values in
the Pages column. In this case, the Pages column indicates the number of pages in the book.
As you can see, the result set is in an ascending order by number of pages.
Now you can describe how to sort the result set by either ascending or descending order,
and explain how to indicate which column to use for the sorting order.
Thanks for watching this video.